# Auth0 Tenant Internationalization and Localization

There are 2 repositories (repo) involved, this one and a fork of Auth0 [Lock](https://github.com/sillsdev/lock). Documentation for both is here since we want the fork to be able to make pull requests (PRs) to its upstream.

For documentation links see [Auth0](https://auth0.com/docs/i18n).

The internationalization of Auth0 is implemented as follows:
* Added a language dropdown picker on the Lock [login page](/settings/pages/login.html). When calling Lock `authorize` method the language can be passed in as one of the `options`. In `options.language`, use one of the following:

  * {string} language tag - the login page will show in that language, no language picker is displayed.
  * {object} that is `JSON.stringify`-ed, see structure below - where `tag` will show the login page in that language, and `options` is an array of *language options* for the language picker. If `options` is not defined no language picker is displayed. A *language option* contains a `value` which is the language tag and an optional `label`. If `label` is not defined the login page will use its own label.
    ```javascript
    {
        tag: "<language tag>",
        options?: [
            { value: "<language tag>", label?: "<local name>" },
            ...
            { value: "<language tag>" }
        ]
    }
    ```
* Store the users preferred language in their profile (`user_metadata`).
* Emails load the user's preferred language from their profile so the template can “if-then-elseif” for each language. A larger template but it works. The email subject also uses a “if-then-elseif” template for each language.
* Verify email won’t work this way because the preferred language is not loaded soon enough. We have used the somewhat [hacky way](https://community.auth0.com/t/verification-email-missing-user-metadata/14350/7) to deal with this.
* Write language selected from web app back to Auth0 user profile. This is required so emails use the right language, e.g. for password reset.
* Customise language support beyond the built-in ones for Lock by making our own language server at auth0.languagetechnology.org, forked from theirs and adding extra language JS files.

## Translating Emails
This repo contains the source HTML file for emails for _crowdin_ next to the Auth0 config HTML file. The source file also contains the email subject for translation. The translated files from _crowdin_ are committed in the `crowdin` sub-folder. This allows us to easily diff changes from _crowdin_. The Auth0 config email files are currently manually updated from the _crowdin_ diffs.

## Further Work
* Need a way to allow different preferred languages across applications but still use the profile default preferred language if an application-specific preferred language is not defined.
* Need to figure out what to do about the reply address so that it can be re-directed for each application. At the moment the reply address is `support@languagetechnology.org` (defined tenant wide) which is caught by `ltops@sil.org`. Our SES rules could be modified to split these out. It might be nicer to use Google email rules since that UI is functional.
* Support URL is currently not defined for our tenants so this link is blank in each email.
* Custom languages could use a sub-folder in auth0.languagetechnology.org for `staging` should the need arise to differentiate them.
* A `js` script could be written to convert the _crowdin_ JSON files back to the language `js` files.

# Custom Languages for Lock

The fork of [Lock](https://github.com/sillsdev/lock) allows us to customise language support beyond the built-in ones for Lock. [Here](https://auth0.com/docs/libraries/lock/v11/i18n) are a list of languages that Lock currently supports.

## Translating Custom Languages
The fork contains a working (WIP) branch `i18n/crowdin` which has 3 commits:
1. The first commit adds a `json` folder that extracts the JSON data from the existing language `js` files. These are manually extracted at this stage. These are the source files for _crowdin_. `en.json` is the primary source file and the others are the starting points for translation into each language. If the original `js` file is not commented as "automatically translated" then it is marked as approved when imported in _crowdin_.
2. The second commit contains translated JSON files returned from _crowdin_. It contains unsupported (by Auth0) language files as well.
3. The third commit contains updated `js` files converted from the second commit JSON files. The conversion is manual at this stage. This commit can be wholly or partially cherry-picked to another branch to PR back into upstream.

To commit to the third commit, we had to change line 29 in `package.json` from `"lint": "eslint --ext .jsx,.js src/",` to `"lint": "",` since the pre-commit hook fails on linting existing code.

## Building and Releasing Custom Languages
To setup for building, fork the [repo](https://github.com/sillsdev/lock). Then in the repo root:
```bash
sudo npm i -g yarn
yarn install
npm run dist
```

If you add a new file, run this below before build.
```bash
npm run dist
```

To build:
```bash
npm run build
```

Now copy the built `js` files from the repo `/build/` folder to the auth0.languagetechnology.org S3 bucket. The folder structure needs to be `/js/lock/<version>` where `<version>` is the Lock version used in a `<script>` tag in the [login page](/settings/pages/login.html). Note this file is configured (setting `languageBaseUrl`) to use the language files in this S3 bucket.
